ENCRYPTED PASSWORDS DOC		Started: 2013-07-09	Updated: 2014-12-31


NOTE: THIS FEATURE IS OPTIONAL, AND SHOULD ONLY BE ACTIVATED AFTER YOUR SYSTEM
      HAS BEEN INSTALLED, CONFIGURED AND TESTED!



INSTALL:

Perl CPAN module required for Password Encryption to function:
NOTE: this must be installed on all webservers if you have more than one

On the Linux command line of your webserver(s), type the following:

cpan
install Crypt::Eksblowfish::Bcrypt
quit

Then, go to the admin web interface Admin -> System Settings page and manually
confirm that Password Encryption is DISABLED (fifth item from the top)

Then, run the following CLI script: (run in test mode first!)
   /usr/share/astguiclient/ADMIN_bcrypt_convert.pl --debugX --test

Then if no errors are shown, run the same script above WITHOUT the --test flag.
NOTE:  If you also want to clear the plaintext passwords from the users table,
you can run the above script with the --clear-plaintext-pass flag

Now if you go back to the admin web interface Admin -> System Settings page, you
should see that Password Encryption is now ENABLED.

You should not have to do anything else to use fully encrypted passwords on your
system.



DESCRIPTION:

This new optional feature is part of the security enhancements that have been
made to the Vicidial Contact Center System in our 2.8 development branch. After
consulting with security experts, we added several new security features to the
web interfaces and closed several security vulnerabilities as well.

The first major change was protecting against most SQL injection attacks. The
second major change was locking a user's account for 15 minutes after 10 failed
login attempts, which removes the vulnerability of the system to brute force
password attacks. Password encryption is the third major change, which protects
user passwords even if the system is compromised and the users database table is
downloaded.

We use the Bcrypt hashing algorithm, which allows for variable rates of
calculating the hash from a password and a salt. This variable "cost" is
definable in the system before you activate password encryption, and this is
what allows bcrypt to increase the complexity of the hash as computer systems
improve calculation ability, which makes Bcrypt the ideal choice for a system
that could be installed for many years.

All password checking goes through the bp.pl perl script to generate the Bcrypt
hash that checks against the vicidial_users table password hash if Password
Encryption is enabled on your system.

NOTES: Enabling Password Encryption will force case-sensitive passwords


To test the password encryption, or to generate a pass hash manually, just go to
your web server and run this command on the bp.pl script:

	/srv/www/htdocs/agc/bp.pl --pass=test

You can also use the above command to generate a new password hash if you have
forgotten your password and update the database with the new value manually:

	UPDATE vicidial_users set pass_hash='kfYvywV959fn09rSZML70wHjjxsaYjm' where user='123';
